hey how's it going dave2d here so we are
looking at the world's most powerful
most feature-rich fully loaded
smartphone this is the asus
rog phone three it's the third
generation or third iteration of it
and the hardware on this thing is just
on another level every component of it
is just
maxed out literally the fastest best
stuff you can get
it's loaded with a snapdragon 865 plus
so instead of the regular
snapdragon 865 you see on all the other
flagships out there this is the
overclocked version that pushes out some
extra performance
16 gigs of ram i'm gonna let that sink
in for a little bit because that is so
much memory like that is probably more
ram
than most people have in their gaming
desktops this is crazy
it's got very fast storage ufs 3.1
there's 512 gigs of it and the screen is
also
of course the fastest in the market
right now 144 hertz
one millisecond response time and then
juicing this whole system
is a 6 000 milliamp hour battery
it's huge it's the same size as last
year's model but they've made some
tweaks
to make the whole battery system so much
better than the previous versions of it
now all the components i've talked about
so far the individual parts
are very impressive right it's like the
best of the best so to achieve the best
possible performance with this crazy
powerful hardware they had to have an
upgraded thermal system compared to last
year's model right so it's the same size
and shape as the
rg phone 2. like it's the same weight
and everything but because this is
rocking a more powerful chip
a hotter chip and it's rocking 5g
antennas 5g modems
there's just more stuff to do inside
this thing so the thermal system has to
be a little bit more efficient
and they've built a phone that they say
can get rid of its heat very effectively
now if you look at the back
of the rg phone 3 the vent on the back
is actually a little bit smaller
visually
than last year's model which i thought
was a little bit strange because i
imagine this would be a harder chip to
cool
than last year's snapdragon 855 plus but
clearly they've made enough changes on
the inside
to compensate for it now the rest of the
exterior has also changed quite a bit
this looks a little more technical to me
like you can see through the glass
and see the inner design that they've
placed on the side here
but i don't know if i like it more like
i think the
rog phone 2 looked really nice it just
had that right touch of like copper
accent to
you know flex a little bit of gamer but
not really this
i don't think this is a super game or
anything but it just looks less unique
i also don't like the smooth glass on
this thing i definitely prefer the
textured glass
and the red power button not on my watch
so it still has the accessory port on
the side where you can connect the
bundled fan to cool the system down a
little bit better when you're playing
games
also still has air triggers on the other
side and you have your usbc port on the
bottom
you have your sim tray which holds two
sims but no expandable storage
and you also have your rog logo that
lights up to your heart's content it's
very customizable
and it's actually reasonably bright even
in daylight
the emission this year however headphone
jack
there is no headphone jack and we gotta
have a talk about this i am someone who
is
comfortable with certain companies
removing headphone jacks from their
phones
but when it comes to a gaming phone it
just makes
absolutely no sense it it boggled my
mind when i first saw this like
when i first used it i first got this in
i didn't even notice it i didn't read
the
instruction manual just like using it
and went to plug in my
my just air pods uh or earpods
and i was like what what
how could they remove this now they
included dongle in the package but it
just doesn't make sense
now as for the reasoning i didn't reach
out to asus about this
i'm assuming it's for like a 5g antenna
or or something right
there's got to be a reason they removed
it they didn't just do this to piss
people off on purpose
but the omission of a headphone jack on
this particular phone
is going to upset the audience that was
interested in this phone in the first
place like real simple example
when you're playing games you're often
depending on
sound cues to do things like you're
often using your ears to coordinate what
you're doing and if you're dependent on
some kind of
wireless bluetooth solution for the
audio there's gonna be latency or lag it
just
takes away from the gaming experience so
i'm normally not vocal about the
removable headphone jacks at least not
like this but on a gaming phone
of this caliber you know the the
compromise free phone from the past
is now compromised okay let's move on to
the screen
144 hertz one millisecond super fast and
it's been improved over last year's
model
the colors are better it's more accurate
and the screen gets brighter
at peak so it's a improved screen and
games look
awesome on it now if i'm being honest i
cannot tell the difference in terms of
refresh rate
between the 144 hertz and the 120 hertz
from last year
like i tried on basically every game
that i could test this on
my eye can't tell the difference it's
only a 24 frame difference
like 24 frames per second but i was
hoping to be able to differentiate
between the two different refresh rates
i just can't though the speakers have
also been improved this year
these are excellent speakers i actually
think these are
the best smartphone speakers on the
planet like i've i've personally never
heard anything better
they're loud and very clear rg phone 2
already had great speakers these are
even better the one thing though like
the stereo separation
on these speakers are so good like you
when you have it in landscape mode
your left and right sound so separated
like it's weird that this is coming from
a phone
but when you're holding it vertically
let's say you're watching like i don't
know
a vertical video of some sort the
separation is
also so significant that it sounds
strange like you're hearing sound that
goes above your head
and below your head and you can really
hear the difference between those two
sound sources
it's hard to describe but it is a little
bit weird and i gotta be honest i don't
love it but
in landscape mode it's on point all
right let's talk about the air triggers
if you've never seen these before
there are these touch sensitive regions
on the trim
of the phone that simulate like the
trigger buttons on a console
controller the very first time i saw
these on the rog phone one
i found them to be a little bit gimmicky
two generations later like this is the
third one
i still don't love them i feel like
there's like there's something
inherently weird about
pressing something that doesn't have
tactile feedback like when you press it
you kind of want some physical feedback
for it to feel proper now i will say
that if you're playing a game
and you want to use it as like a button
you press it and you hold down like a
racing game you want to use that as your
gas button
it can work it's just that for games
where you want to shoot with it or
where you want to tap it it doesn't feel
right but it is just an additional
feature
to the phone okay the battery is huge 6
000 milliamp hours but they've also
included
two software features this year that
greatly improve the overall power system
of this phone
so the first thing is that you can limit
the charging rate
so the charger they include in the
package is a 30 watt fast charger which
is great when you want to juice it up
real
quickly but in terms of the the
longevity of a device like the lifespan
of a device
if you're charging it at 30 watts every
day it's just going to reduce the
lifespan of your
your phone's battery you can limit it
down to 10 watts so it's not like a
super slow charge but it's slow enough
so that you plug it up at night
it'll take a lot longer to fill it up
but
it keeps the battery in a healthier
state and if you do it over the course
of many years
you're going to have a longer lasting
battery than if you didn't
and the second thing they've added is
you can limit the
maximum charge your battery will hold so
you can reduce it down to like 80
90 and the purpose of doing it is again
to extend
the life of your battery it's something
that a lot of phone companies don't
really care about
and here's the thing as tech reviewers
we usually don't care too much about
features like this right because
we are encouraged we're almost required
to switch phones
all the time to be able to to test stuff
for you guys right
but if you're a consumer this type of
software feature is awesome like this
will
guarantee to extend the life of your
battery versus
a phone that doesn't have it like as
long as you're using it it'll just make
your phone last longer
electric cars do it and it's cool that
asus is doing it on their phones it's
definitely like an enthusiast
feature like you're not gonna have like
your your grandmother's not gonna be
doing this on her phone
but it's it's for the people that would
buy this phone in the first place
so cool that they have it the camera
system has three cameras this year it's
got your regular wide angle
your ultra wide and they've added a five
megapixel macro lens now
the shots i've taken with that macro
aren't particularly impressive but the
other two
are good i'm not gonna go in depth on it
but i don't see like a major
issue with these cameras truth is if
you're buying the rog phone three
you're probably not purchasing it for
its camera system anyways but here's the
thing
the gaming on this phone is super
enjoyable
i connected it up to like the microsoft
xbox controller
and it's just it's just a lot of fun
super smooth portable gaming
so a few years ago when i did my very
first gaming phone review
i felt like the industry was not in a
great spot like the hardware was kind of
getting there but the software like
games were just not
good nowadays they're better i still
wouldn't consider them
on the level of consoles let alone pc
gaming but i can see where this industry
is heading
now that being said these
gaming phones are becoming
like they're they're starting to get
crossover like if you look like a
oneplus phone
oneplus 8 pro or like a samsung phone
those have high refresh screens that
used to be the distinguishing feature
that separated
a gaming phone from a non-gaming phone
but now
because regular consumer level phones
have high refresh screens
and they're packing some very good
hardware these things don't really stick
out as readily like they're not as
they're not as unique as they used to be
so even if you did want a gaming phone
now it's not as obvious of a choice
right so here's my take on it i feel
like if i was a younger kid and i was
like
15 and i was drawn to rgb lights on my
phone and i wanted the crazy stuff that
comes with gaming phones these are still
really cool i just don't feel like
they're as compelling of a purchase
as as a regular phone i feel like most
people should be getting
just high performance regular phones
instead of gaming phones
even if you are for whatever reason a
hardcore mobile gamer
okay hope you guys enjoyed this video
thumbs if you liked it subs if you loved
it
i'll see you guys next time
[Music]